//General Rules and Guidelines for DOTA 2 Tournament 

    (i) Teams and Players
    
          A. Team Size
              A team has to consist of only five (5) players. Stand-ins will not be allowed in the competition. 
          
          B. Registration
              In order to sign-up to the competition, a team needs to have their own ‘team name’ to distinguish themselves from the other teams. Only the DOTA ID of your roster will be collected to assert your own rights on privacy. There will be no restrictions in player rankings as long as the minimum requirements are met at all times.

          C. Roster Changes
              Every team can decide their own leaders. Every team can do changes before the day of the competition. That also means that all teams will not allowed to make changes in the duration of the whole tournament.
          
          D. Schedule
              The official schedule of the competition can be found on the individual competition rules and/or official announcement. All teams should observe PUNCTUALITY. The Administration have the authority to take corresponding actions to regulate the tournament flow and/or schedule. If one team has not shown any sign of activity until 20 minutes after the match time, a default win may be requested. An admin will then evaluate the situation. A change of match time is only possible under exceptional circumstances and has to be confirmed by the administration.

    (ii)  Hosting and Lobby Settings

          A. Lobby Hosting
              Game Mode – Captains Mode, unless stated otherwise by the individual competition rules.
              Lobby Password – Must be set by the Server
              Lobby Visibility – Public enable
              Priority – This will be decided by automatic Coin Toss
              Cheats – No selection
              Penalty Radiant/Dire – None 
              Pausing – Unlimited 
              Bot Settings – No 

          B. Roster Check/Lineup Check
              Both teams are responsible for checking their own roster and opponents roster before the start of the game. If a roster is found not valid according to the rules, then the team can refuse to start the game. As soon as the first creepwave spawns, the game is considered ongoing and protests about the roster are no longer accepted. Every team has at least (5) minutes to fix an invalid roster regardless of how much time is remaining.

          C. During a game
              *Pauses
                Each team has the right to pause the game for an acceptable duration. The game must not be resumed before both teams agree on it. When the number of the duration becomes too high or too long, the administration may force the continuation of the game.
          
          D. Disconnects 
                If a player disconnects, the game must be paused instantly. Every single person has up to ten (10) minutes to reconnect to the game in total. If this time is passed, the opposing team may continue the game. 
          
          E. Cheating
                The usage of any Dota-related tool aside from Steam during a match is strictly forbidden
          
          F. Ending 
                 A game is finished, when an Ancient Fortress is destroyed, when majority of a team leaves on purpose, or when the administration decides on it. A game is not forfeited, when player types “gg” or “ff.” Always wait for the Ancient to be destroyed. 
          
          G. Player Etiquette
                 Sportsmanship is heavily encouraged. Any form of bullying, taunts, quarrel, provocation, etc. will receive corresponding punishment decided by an admin.

    (iii) Rule Violation and Punishment 
          *Breaking the rules or ignoring the order of an admin may result in a punishment for the whole team. Type and amount is chosen by the admin. 

          Possible Punishments 
                Draft penalty loss of one game
                Loss of entire match
                Ban from this and future competitions.

Enjoy and GLHF.
